Chairman Rand Paul, M.D.

On July 29, 2026, Dr. Anthony Fauci appeared before the Committee under subpoena at a hearing
titled “Testimony of Anthony Fauci.” He delivered an opening statement and then invoked the Fifth
Amendment 111 times, refusing to answer the Committee’s questions. Chairman Paul ruled that the
privilege did not apply and ordered him to answer. He refused again. On August 6, 2026, the
Committee voted to hold Dr. Fauci in contempt of Congress. The records below were released by
Chairman Paul. Dr. Fauci refused to answer questions about them under oath.

  Over nearly eleven years, Dr. Fauci closed sensitive emails by telling the recipient to delete them upon
  reading. The instructions appear in messages dated September 26, 2009; December 19, 2011; March 4,
  2012; February 2, 2020; and July 20, 2020. In the 2012 email he asked that the message also be removed
  from the deleted items folder.

  A CIA memorandum records that Dr. Fauci encouraged the CIA to contact Robert Garry, Kristian
  Andersen, and Eddie Holmes. The CIA’s own memo notes the common thread: “all three of whom
  have advocated for features of the virus that they judge to be consistent with a natural origin.”
  Additionally, a July 12, 2021 email from ODNI states that Dr. Fauci had highlighted a scientific article
  and identified “the authors whose views he thought were particularly important”: Edward Holmes,
  Kristian Andersen, and Andrew Rambaut.

  Documents show that the CIA and NIAID had an interagency agreement under which the transfer of
  funds and the contractual relationship between the two agencies were unclassified but restricted from
  public release. The agreement provided that NIAID would not disclose the resulting data without the
  CIA’s permission.

  A Biological Sciences Experts Group (BSEG) action request form, submitted by the CIA’s Global
  Health Team on September 4, 2015, asked “for a paper outlining the rate of mutation, the number of
  passages from human to human to lock in these mutations (or to generate them), and the molecular
  genetic means through which this is likely to occur.”

  On May 7, 2020, CIA Chief Operating Officer Andy Makridis led a briefing with Dr. Scott Gottlieb,
  the former FDA commissioner, in his capacity as a member of the agency’s External Advisory Board.
  The agency’s own summary of the meeting identifies Gottlieb as a member of the Board of Directors
  of Pfizer. Gottlieb would later also be consulted by the intelligence community during the Biden
  Administration’s 90-day study on the origins of COVID-19.
