UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO

Statement of Work For —"' is a | support
1.0 INTRODUCTION

The Biologicial Technology Center (BTC) under the Centeral Intelligence
Agency's Directorate of Science and Technology (DS&T) Department of Advanced
Technologies and Programs (ATP) is supporting forensic microbiology research and
development (R&D) efforts for the intelligence community (IC) in coordination with and
with support from the Intelligence Technology Innovation Center (ITIC), Currently
capabilities are robust for detection and identification of microbial pathogens of BW
concern from a variety of matrices. However, detection and identification are only
superficial levels of forensic analysis. Forensic comparative analyses carry with them a
more stringent set of scientific requirements. To mect the forensic requirements
significant R&D investments must be pursued. BTC is supporting work in this regard and
leveraging partnerships across government agencies wherever possible to support and
further develop robust forensic microbiology capability.

‘The goal of this project is to leverage the sequencing, functional genomics and
bioinformatics capabilities that the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Disease
(NIAID/NIH) has funded at the Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR). NIAID has a
pre-existing relationship with TIGR to provide comprehensive genomic, bioinformatics,
and functional genomics reagents, resources and data to the scientific community for
conducting research on organisms considered agents of bioterrorism . TIGR has also
sought to foster a specific capability in forensic microbiology by building a partnership
with ‘The collaborative efforts between
TIG! luct in Integrated Bio-threat Forensics-
Systems Biology. Many of the underlying basic science questions relevant to forensic
microbiology can be examined at the unclassified level through comparative genomic
analyses and studies on agents of bio-terrorism supported by NIAID at TIGR to generate
reagents, technologies and data for the scicntific community. To date no such
collaborative efforts exist anywhere else at thei level with this specific goal.
This project will use BTC funds to leverage the pre-existing efforts funded by NIAID at
TIGR to support BTC research requirements and add capacity to perform functional
comparative genomics studies in a way that is of benefit to both NLAD and BTC.
Unclassified basic scientific research on questions of forensic relevance such
technique validation strategies, mutational stability of genetic loci, and data interpretation
will be used to augment and complement other BTC directed R&D cfforts.

29 SCOPE

BTC requests that NIAID contract with TIGR under the NL ogen
Functional Genomics Resource Cena PREC) oo vt
work to support BTC relevant forensic research needs and focus comparative genomic
analysis of organisms considered agents of bioterrorism and use emerging genomic

UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO —————s
