UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO
technologies to study these organisms at a whole genome level not focused on one gene
at a time. This collaboration between BTC and NIAID not only meets BTC scientific
requirements but is also directly related to the mission of NIAID and fits well within the
goals and capacities of the NIAID-funded PFGRC efforts. In carrying out this work
TIGR should leverage any appropriate preexisting academic collaborations. The work
shall encompass validation studies for existing bio-threat analytic methods as directed by
BTC to include test and evaluation of comparative genomic analysis methods such as re-
sequencing micro-arrays for bacterial pathogens using samples provided by NIAID and
obtained from other government organizations when applicable with BTC approval and
facilitation as necessary. Finally, using model pathogen systems that are scientifically
comparable to existing classes of current bacterial threat agents (with BTC approval),
conduct work to further development of comparative analysis analytic tools as forensic
analytic tools, validate interpretive criteria to include in addition to traditional sequence-
based genotyping approaches.
3.0 TASKS
Task 3.1: Within 1 month of including budget and transfer LAA agreement, the
contractor shall produce a detailed work execution plan for comparative analyses
and validation studies using DNA resequencing microarrays specific for
Francisella tularensis with the possibility to expand the studies to include other
bioterror threat agents. The plan shall be presented to the government Sponsor
(BTC) and NIAID during a Contract Initiation Review (CIR) mecting. The
validation studies must include work to examine the mutational stability of
genetic loci of forensic utility present in the genomes of these pathogens. NIAID
will provide sample sets for this purpose that leverage other government
collaborations and BTC will facilitate NIAID obtaining sample sets from other
US Government entities as appropriate. This task should comprise approximately
15% of the overall effort under this contract. BTC shall take the lead to ensure
NIAID success with respect to obtaining the required sample sets.
Task 3.2: Within two months of [AA award the contractor shal] start the work
outlined in Task 3.1 focusing initial studies first on Francisella tularensis and
proceeding to the other pathogens. BTC will aid NIAID in obtaining the
appropriate samples sets for conducting the analyses. By the end of the contract
period the contractor shall produce a report that describes all of the results and
interpretations from these studies. The report should also include extensive
discussions on the impact of variations in mutational rates seen at different
limitations of interpretations. The government sponsors shall be kept informed of
the progress on this task through quarterly reports and bimonthly meetings during
which progress, data, and any project relevant difficulties are discussed and
resolved with the government COTR. With the routual consent of the government
sponsors the frequency of the bimonthly meetings can be adjusted as progress on
UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO
a
