.- Entered into the record by Chairman Rand
UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO
the effort warrants. This task y/
this Tepresents 70% of the overall effort expected under
‘Task 3.3: In parallel to tasks 3.1 and 3.2, using model organisms that are
appropriate surrogates for the organisms in task 3.1, develop analytic and
interpretive criteria for the exclusion, inclusion, and ‘matching’ of bacterial
samples from known and questioned sources based on forensic genetic
comparisons, Where appropriate leverage information developed from Tasks 3.1
and 3.2. Describe the genetic loci informative and important to the criteria to
include: what is known about these loci, the locus importance for forensic
comparison to include the effects that loci genetic stability may have on forensic
comparative analysis. If insufficient relevant research data is available for the
organisms selected (and the actual pathogens listed in task 3.1) develop a research
plan that would generate the relevant data and test the hypothetical approaches
developed. Leverage relevant academic collaborations as necessary. The
selection rationale for surrogate organisms and the draft research plan are to be
presented to the government Sponsors in the form of a report that incorporates
responses to Sponsor feedback, concerns and questions, This task should
represent 15% of the overall effort under this contract.
4.0 DELIVERABLES
4.1 For Task 3.1; Within 1 month of [AA NIAID shall provide a detailed and fully
explained work execution plan as outlined under task 3.1. The contractor shall provide 5
hardcopies of this plan for government review and one electronic copy in CD-rom
format. All electronic documents shall be provided in Microsoft Word format and copies
of any presentations provided in Microsoft powerpoint.
4.2 For task 3.2: The contractor shall provide the goverment sponsors with a quarterly
report discussing the results and implications of all analyses produced as part of this task.
The contractor shall also provide all raw data to the government as requested, The
contractor shall provide 5 hardcopies of thesc reports for government review and onc
electronic copy in CD-rom format. All electronic documents shal! be provided in
Microsoft Word format and copies of any presentations prepared during bimonthly
meetings shall be provided in Microsoft powerpoint.
4.3 For Task 3.3: The contractor shal! provide a detailed and fully explained research
plan as outlined under task 3.3. The contractor shal] provide 5 hardcopies of this plan for
government review and one electronic copy in CD-rom format. All electronic documents
shall be provided in Microsoft Word format and copies of any presentations provided in
Microsoft powerpoint. The deliverable for this task is a written plan that could be
executed at a future date if the BTC is interested in pursuing it further.
UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO —— et
