. Entered into the record by Chairman Rand
UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO
44 Progress, Status, and Management Reports.
The contractor shall meet quarterly with the government sponsor to discuss progress on
the tasks and provide the government with Quarterly progress reports. These reports and
the other delieverables are to be marked within the header and footer as
"UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO", whereby FOUO carries the meaning ‘For Official
{government) Use Only." Upon completion of the the studies the contractor shall provide
a final report which contains a detailed discussion of all results and analyses associated
with all the tasks described in this SOW. All deliverables are to be sent by FEDEX to:
Alternatively the progress reports and deliverables can be provided directly in electronic
format to the government sponsors at the quarterly meeting.
5.0 Presentation Material - Meeting Minutes/Conference Notes,
Quarterly progress reviews shall be held and attended by the representatives of the
sponsors CIA and NIAID and appropriate government sponsor approved PFRGC-TIGR
staff.
6.0 Markings/Distribution of Reports
6.1 Data Rights. The CIA considers all technical data developed using funds transferred
to NIAID under this Interagency Agreement to be sensitive, but unclassified, with respect
to National Security for the development of forensic attribution capabilities in bio-
defense, and as such should not be uscd, modified, performed, displayed, released or
disclosed, in whole or in part in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever without the
CIA’s permission. This information should be treated as For Official Use Only (FOUO).
Accordingly, NIAID shall include the following clause in any contract for the
development of technical data using CLA funds provided under this LAA. If a contractor
refuses to accept this clause, or substantially similar terms, NIAID will promptly bring
such refusal to the CIA’s attention and will not proceed with the award of the contract
without authorization of the CLA. NIAID will not authorize the contractor to use or
disclose such data without the prior permission of the CIA. Unless required by law,
tegulation or court order, NIAID will not disclose such information in its possession or
control without first seeking the CIA’s permission. NIAID will make reasonable efforts
to promptly inform the CLA of any request or requirement for disclosure.
6.2 Distribution/Release Limitation Statements. All data shall be protected from
disclosure in accordance with the markings contained on each document and as described
in the following text. Alj other information relating to the items to be delivered or
UNCLASSIFIED//FOUO
Mire nas
