UNCLASSiFIED//ALUO

EXSUM on VTC (7MAY20 -1200-1300 hrs) with Dr. Scott Gottlieb, EAB Member

Meeting was led by COO Andy Makridis and arranged by nr
Representatives from OG! and WCPMC attended.

BLUF

Dr. Gottlieb primarily provided his thoughts on the state of US based medical

countermeasures/ prophylaxis development arranged into 3 broad types: mRNA based protein
expression, DNA adenovirus shell vaccine delivery and traditional recombinant protein vaccines. He
answered a broad range of questions regarding the current clinical manifestations of COVID-19,
implications of seasonality, state of US seroprevalence, asymptomatic infected individuals and
comparisons to foreign countries’ COVID-19 responses. The biggest takeaway is that he believes the
PRC will be first to market with a vaccine against COVID-19 and is concerned that this will have
positive geopolitical repercussions for the PRC even if the product proves to be marginally effective.
Speaker Bio

Dr. Scott Gottlieb is an American physician and investor who served as the 23rd commissioner of the
FDA from 2017 until April 2019. In April 2020 he joined Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s COVID-19
Response Team. He also advises Massachusetts Govemor Charlie Baker on COVID-19 and serves as an
Advisor on the Reopen Connecticut Advisory Group. Gottlieb is presently a resident fellow at

the American Enterprise Institute (AE!), a partner at the venture capital firm New Enterprise Associates,
a member of the Board of Directors of Pfizer and a contributor to the cable financial news network
CNBC, Before becoming FDA commissioner, he was a clinical assistant professor at New York University
School of Medicine, the FDA deputy commissioner for medical and scientific affairs, a venture partner
with New Enterprise Associates, a member of the policy board of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society,
and a senior official at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Selected Details

Dr. Gottlieb believes that cases will continue to rise in the US through May based on a Ro (BRR) value of
3 for SARS-CoV-2, Current testing is estimated to be detecting between 1 in10 and 1 in 20 infections,
suggesting that the US could experience 300,000 cases.
The trends also suggest a seasonality to COVID-19 waning with the warmer months in the US, similar to
H1N41, but returning in the fall season. He is closely following cases as Brazil enters their winter season
to determine if COVID-19 will track as a seasonal respiratory viral infection.
He mentioned several treatment modalities all as marginal or ineffective. He sees the most promise in
Remdesivir as the most promising (although also of moderate efficacy) treatment option due to
Regeneron’s complete in-house capability to produce the drug from lab to industrial scale. Other
manufacturers outsource significant portions of scale production.

UNCLASSIFIED//AIU0
