UNCLASSIFIED//AIUO
He firmly believes the US must have domestic production of medical countermeasures as prior
epidemics led to predictable nationalization of such resources in other countries. Dr. Gottlieb described
3 broad methods for vaccine development a) mRNA based using exogenous expression of the S (or
spike) protein independently being pursued by Pfizer & Moderna, b) adenovirus based DNA based
vaccine delivery pursued by Johnson & Johnson, Oxford, & Astra-Zeneca and c) recombinant protein
vaccine pursued by Innova, Sanofi/GlaxoSmithKline. This last approach seems to require an adjuvant as
the protein being expressed is apparently not very immunogenic,
Dr. Gottlieb has not been following the international medical countermeasures field as closely as US
ones, but believes that the PRC has several candidates in clinical trials and that they will be the first to
market what is likely to be a substandard vaccine. He is concerned that being “first” has prestige (even if
relatively ineffective) and will be use to advantage by the PRC geopolitically.
Queried about the experience other countries are having, his general impression Is that smaller
countries such as the Republic of Korea, the governing authorities on Taiwan, the semi-autonomous
region of Hong Kong and the Republic of Singapore were all successful as they could impose restrictions
on civil liberties that would not be acceptable to US citizens. Comparing Stockholm to NYC, he sees that
the rate and scale of infections is about the same (from a Journal of the American Medical Association
manuscript published this week by the Karolinska Institute), so the jury is out on whether locking down
(or not) was effective; he believes Stockholm did effectively lockdown even if not declared.
On asymptomatic carriers, nasopharyngeal swabs have been obtained from patients from which virions
were recovered and suggest between 30 ~ 60% of infected individuals could be shedding virus with no
apparent symptoms. These individuals appear to be mounting an immune response from
seroprevalence studies with an age dependence implying that SARS-CoV-2 may not be strongly
immunogenic.
On “herd immunity” Or. Gottlieb discounts the 2 major studies from Los Angeles and Santa Clara
counties showing high seroprevalence. He believes nationally, the seroprevalence is about 20-25%
which is insufficient for herd immunity at the Ro (BRR) value of 3.
UNCLASSIFIED//AIUO
