Stephen Shames/Polaris

LOST AIDS has killed an estimated 25 million people over nearly 30 years, including Victorious, 13, not long
after this photograph was taken in Uganda, in 2000.

By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
Published: September 26, 2009

What would an AIDS vaccine mean to the world?

In some ways, it would outshine a cure for the common cold. After all, even if the cold and its stealth wingman,
pneumonia, kill more people, they don’t do it quite so grimly.

People with AIDS tend to die after years of suffering, often screaming from the agony of cryptococcal meningitis
or choking on thrush fungus. In poor countries, they too often leave behind a blighted harvest of orphans, coldly
furious infected spouses and spiteful neighbors cackling with schadenfreude and lying about their own H.I.V.
status.

Those who slip away from pneumonia are usually very old and weak or very young and weak. Families may be
bereft, but less often financially and spiritually broken.

On a larger scale, a vaccine would mean so many things: The end of an age of fear that has loomed since the
1980s and has gnawed at Africa the way the Black Death once gnawed at Europe, only more slowly. The savings
of billions of dollars. An excuse for the vast new disease-specific institutions like UNAids, the President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to hold their
medal ceremonies, play their anthems, pack up and head home. (Fat chance, since bureaucracies are immortal —
though, admittedly, there is no UNSmallpox.) But there is nothing to suggest in the news from Thailand this past
week that such an age is dawning.

A vaccine is not just around the corner, and no expert will say it is. In the ’80s, top officials embarrassed
themselves by predicting one in five years. At the time, the epidemic had killed a few hundred gay American
men, hemophiliacs, drug users and transfusion recipients. No one imagined its death march would entrain 25
million as it circled the globe.
