Still, for vaccinologists, last week’s news was momentous — after 20 years of constant failure, a vaccine
appeared to have, for the first time, offered some protection. And it was the largest-ever clinical trial of its type.

But only the numbers that could be wedged into headlines were big. “One Third Protected” was a common one.

In the data itself, the real margin of success was razor-thin: 23 Thais out of 16,395.

That is, three years after getting the vaccine or a placebo, 74 in the placebo arm of the trial became infected
while only 51 in the vaccine arm did.

Bloggers with a taste for biostatistics — and one rival AIDS vaccine specialist who declined to be quoted — said
it would take only a handful more infected Thais in the vaccine column to shift the results from “statistically
significant” to meaningless. Even one more would have weakened the data enough to make headlines saying
“One Quarter Protected” more likely, given the way journalists round off numbers.

Which is to say: something as simple as a couple of broken condoms could have altered the conclusions of the
trial.

Moreover, even the experts overseeing it — the United States Army, the National Institutes of Health and
Thailand’s health ministry — could not say why blending two experimental vaccines that had previously failed
had suddenly worked. Or sort of worked.

More oddly, the infected people in both arms of the trial had the same amount of virus in their bloodstream.
That’s unexpected, because normally even a weak vaccine kills some virus.

A few skeptics began to grumble that even faintly rosy conclusions sounded too good to be true.

“One dud plus one dud doesn’t make a firecracker,” said Gregg Gonsalves, a longtime AIDS activist, referring to
the two vaccines by Sanofi-Aventis and Genentech. “They performed pitifully in the past. It’s biologically
implausible that they would do so well now.”

Other groups began to express doubts, not about the data, but about the real-world practicality of what it took to
generate it.

This trial was nothing like the recent swine flu vaccine trials: one shot and bingo, protection for a year. Nor like
the long-established measles vaccine: one shot and bingo, protection for life (though most children now get a
booster to make sure). This was six shots, spaced out over months, ending in weak protection. The next step,
some experts suggested, might be even more shots, or the addition of a third vaccine.

That might be practical in rich countries, but the burden of AIDS is in the poorest ones.

“Millions of children across Africa still die of measles simply because the vaccine doesn’t reach them,” said
Barry Coleman, founder of Riders for Health, a British charity that buys and fixes motorcycles for African health
workers. People with AIDS don’t need, he added, “another breakthrough that does not reach those who need it
most.”

The next scientific step is obvious. Any time researchers declare a miracle — cold fusion, stem-cell cloning —
the first test is whether a rival laboratory can reproduce the results. But this trial defies reproduction: it took six
years and $105 million of U.S. taxpayers’ money. And there aren’t many Thailands in the world — countries that
have AIDS circulating widely, but where the health care system is so good and the population so dependable that
90 percent of patients can stick with a study for six years.

So researchers will have to come up with another model. Until then, a vaccine for AIDS remains a dream
deferred.
