From: "Fauci, Anthony (NIH/NIAID) [E]" <AFAUCI@niaid.nih.gov>
          To: "Lane, Cliff (NIH/NIAID) [E]" <CLANE@niaid.nih.gov>
     Subject: FW: NYT: The Truth About the Doomsday Virus? http://nyti.ms/ypF0RD
        Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 07:55:51 -0500
  Importance: Normal

Cliff:
   The article below relates to an editorial in today’s N.Y. Times. Clearly, people are getting to Phil Boffey and he is
swallowing it. I predicted this. The NSABB will circle the wagons and claim that their decision in no way was influenced
by the fact that they did not realize that the aerosol-transmitted virus did not kill any ferrets or that the engineered virus
was poorly transmissible compared to seasonal H1N1 or that the tracheal experiments required 100 X to 1000X the usual
challenge dose to kill the ferrets or that prior infection with seasonal flu (even H3N2) protected the animals against
tracheal challenge. They will say that it was the mere fact that the virus was made transmissible in ferrets when it was not
transmissible before engineering and passage. If this is the case and they do not change their recommendation, the field
of research on influenza transmissibility and host adaptability has a very serious problem. Please delete this e-mail and
then delete from the deleted file.
Tony

Anthony S. Fauci, MD
Director
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Building 31, Room 7A-03
31 Center Drive, MSC 2520
National Institutes of Health
Bethesda, MD 20892-2520
Phone:
FAX:
E-mail: afauci@niaid.nih.gov
The information in this e-mail and any of its attachments is confidential and may contain sensitive information. It
should not be used by anyone who is not the original intended recipient. If you have received this e-mail in error
please inform the sender and delete it from your mailbox or any other storage devices. The National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) shall not accept liability for any statements made that are the sender's
own and not expressly made on behalf of the NIAID by one of its representatives.

From: Fauci, Anthony (NIH/NIAID) [E]
Sent: Saturday, March 03, 2012 8:48 PM
To: Collins, Francis (NIH/OD) [E]
Subject: FW: NYT: The Truth About the Doomsday Virus? http://nyti.ms/ypF0RD

Francis:
   Phil Boffey is really off base here. See yellow highlight. What is he talking about the NIH’s reputation being on the
line? The NSABB overwhelmingly agreed that the research was important and should have been funded by NIH. They
recommended that the publication be restricted. We accepted their recommendation and began to implement it. Now
we have additional and clarifying information from the Geneva Meeting and the ASM meeting and we want to give the
NSABB the benefit of all of the information and time for further discussion. We are not asking them to change their mind;
we just want them to have all of the information. We cannot say this publicly, but it is clear that essentially no one on the
NSABB (certainly not its Chair) appreciated that the animals infected by aerosol did not get seriously ill and none of them
died. The NSABB may well say that this confusion did not influence their decision and that they stick by their
recommendation. That is their choice. But what does that have to do with the NIH’s reputation? I had spoken to Phil
Boffey after the ASM meeting since he called me to clarify some points about what was discussed at the ASM meeting.
He e-mailed me tonight to give me a heads-up that the editorial was coming on Sunday. I called him up but got voice
mail. I will give him a call first thing next week and find out what is on his mind. He is acting like a mischievous guy.
