Talk to you tomorrow at 4:00 PM.
Thanks,
Tony

From: Folkers, Greg (NIH/NIAID) [E]
Sent: Saturday, March 03, 2012 6:14 PM
Subject: NYT: The Truth About the Doomsday Virus? http://nyti.ms/ypF0RD

Editorial

The Truth About the Doomsday Virus?
Published: March 3, 2012

Two months ago we warned that a new bird flu virus — modified in a laboratory to make it transmissible
through the air among mammals — could kill millions of people if it escaped confinement or was stolen by
terrorists. Now Ron Fouchier, the Dutch scientist who led the key research team, is saying that his findings,
which remain confidential, were misconstrued by the press.

Related

   ·   Genetically Altered Bird Flu Virus Not as Dangerous as Believed, Its Maker Asserts (March 1,
       2012)

   ·    Health Guide: Avian Influenza

He says that the virus did not spread easily and was not lethal when transmitted from one ferret to another by
coughing or sneezing, and that it became highly lethal only when big doses were injected into the animals’
windpipes.

That is hard to square with his original assertions. Experts who read his original manuscript say it reported that
the new virus spread through the air and remained as virulent as the natural virus, which has killed 60 percent of
the humans it has infected.

Dr. Fouchier’s new claims are only the latest bizarre twist in a global health debate that badly needs an objective,
independent arbiter. The public needs to know whether this virus is a potentially big killer, and if so, how it
should be contained. It needs to know what details can be published without giving terrorists a recipe for a
biological weapon. And it needs to know that a mechanism will be put in place to assess all the risks and benefits
of such research before it is approved — not after a new virus has been created.

The debate became public after a federal advisory board, the National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity,
recommended that papers prepared by Dr. Fouchier’s group and researchers doing similar work at the University
of Wisconsin-Madison be published only after omitting details that might help terrorists. That drew charges of
censorship from some scientists, and others warned that restricting the information would make it harder to track
and combat an outbreak of a similar strain.

The World Health Organization convened a closed meeting of 22 experts last month, which concluded that the
research should eventually be published in full. The group was dominated by participants with a clear stake in
